 
Decision trees and Random forests?

Decision tree is a type of supervised learning algorithm (having a pre-defined target variable) that is mostly used in classification problems. It works for both categorical and continuous input and output variables. In this technique, we split the population or sample into two or more homogeneous sets (or sub-populations) based on most significant splitter / differentiator in input variables.

Random Forest is a versatile machine learning method capable of performing both regression and classification tasks. It also undertakes dimensional reduction methods, treats missing values, outlier values and other essential steps of data exploration, and does a fairly good job. It is a type of ensemble learning method, where a group of weak models combine to form a powerful model.

How recall and precision are related to the ROC curve?

Recall describes what percentage of true positives are described as positive by the model. Precision describes what percent of positive predictions were correct. The ROC curve shows the relationship between model recall and specificity – specificity being a measure of the percent of true negatives being described as negative by the model. Recall, precision, and the ROC are measures used to identify how useful a given classification model is.
ROC curve shows how the recall vs precision relationship changes as we vary the threshold for identifying a positive in our model. The threshold represents the value above which a data point is considered in the positive class.
A ROC curve plots the true positive rate on the y-axis versus the false positive rate on the x-axis. The true positive rate (TPR) is the recall and the false positive rate (FPR) is the probability of a false alarm. Both can be calculated from the confusion matrix

What is P value? 

The p-value is the level of marginal significance within a statistical hypothesis test representing the probability of the occurrence of a given event. The p-value is used as an alternative to rejection points to provide the smallest level of significance at which the null hypothesis would be rejected.

Q. What is Homoscedasticity?

A. Homoscedasticity, or homogeneity of variances, is an assumption of equal or similar variances in different groups being compared. This is an important assumption of parametric statistical tests because they are sensitive to any dissimilarities. Uneven variances in samples result in biased and skewed test results.  In statistics, a sequence of random variables is homoscedastic if all its random variables have the same finite variance. 


Q. What is DBSCAN Clustering?

A. DBSCAN is a density-based clustering algorithm that works on the assumption that clusters are dense regions in space separated by regions of lower density. It groups ‘densely grouped’ data points into a single cluster. It can identify clusters in large spatial datasets by looking at the local density of the data points. The most exciting feature of DBSCAN clustering is that it is robust to outliers. It also does not require the number of clusters to be told beforehand, unlike K-Means, where we have to specify the number of centroids.

Q. What is box cox transformation?

A. A Box Cox transformation is a transformation of non-normal dependent variables into a normal shape. Normality is an important assumption for many statistical techniques; if your data isn’t normal, applying a Box-Cox means that you are able to run a broader number of tests.


Decision trees and Random forests?

Decision tree is a type of supervised learning algorithm (having a pre-defined target variable) that is mostly used in classification problems. It works for both categorical and continuous input and output variables. In this technique, we split the population or sample into two or more homogeneous sets (or sub-populations) based on most significant splitter / differentiator in input variables.

Random Forest is a versatile machine learning method capable of performing both regression and classification tasks. It also undertakes dimensional reduction methods, treats missing values, outlier values and other essential steps of data exploration, and does a fairly good job. It is a type of ensemble learning method, where a group of weak models combine to form a powerful model.

How is kNN different from k-means clustering?

kNN, or k-nearest neighbors is a classification algorithm, where the k is an integer describing the number of neighboring data points that influence the classification of a given observation. K-means is a clustering algorithm, where the k is an integer describing the number of clusters to be created from the given data. Both accomplish different tasks.

Follow : instagram.com/machinelearninginfo

Explain cross-validation?
It is a model validation technique for evaluating how the outcomes of a statistical analysis will generalize to an independent data set. It is mainly used in backgrounds where the objective is forecast, and one wants to estimate how accurately a model will accomplish in practice. The goal of cross-validation is to term a data set to test the model in the training phase (i.e. validation data set) in order to limit problems like overfitting and gain insight on how the model will generalize to an independent data set.

For more follow : Instagram.com/machinelearninginfo
.

What is a recommender system? 

Recommender systems are software tools and techniques that provide suggestions for items that are most likely of interest to a particular user.

What are the other clustering algorithms do you know?

k-medoids: Takes the most central point instead of the mean value as the center of the cluster. This makes it more robust to noise.

Agglomerative Hierarchical Clustering (AHC): hierarchical clusters combining the nearest clusters starting with each point as its own cluster.

DIvisive ANAlysis Clustering (DIANA): hierarchical clustering starting with one cluster containing all points and splitting the clusters until each point describes its own cluster.

Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise (DBSCAN): Cluster defined as maximum set of density-connected points.

datascienceinfo:
👉 What is linear regression? When do we use it? 

• Linear regression is a model that assumes a linear relationship between the input variables (X) and the single output variable (y).

With a simple equation:

y = B0 + B1*x1 + ... + Bn * xN

• B is regression coefficients, x values are the independent (explanatory) variables and y is dependent variable.

• The case of one explanatory variable is called simple linear regression. For more than one explanatory variable, the process is called multiple linear regression.

Simple linear regression:

y = B0 + B1*x1
Multiple linear regression:

y = B0 + B1*x1 + ... + Bn * xN

What are the main assumptions of linear regression?

There are several assumptions of linear regression. If any of them is violated, model predictions and interpretation may be worthless or misleading.

1) Linear relationship between features and target variable.

2) Additivity means that the effect of changes in one of the features on the target variable does not depend on values of other features. For example, a model for predicting revenue of a company have of two features - the number of items a sold and the number of items b sold. When company sells more items a the revenue increases and this is independent of the number of items b sold. But, if customers who buy a stop buying b, the additivity assumption is violated.

3) Features are not correlated (no collinearity) since it can be difficult to separate out the individual effects of collinear features on the target variable.

4) Errors are independently and identically normally distributed (yi = B0 + B1*x1i + ... + errori):

i) No correlation between errors (consecutive errors in the case of time series data).

ii) Constant variance of errors - homoscedasticity. For example, in case of time series, seasonal patterns can increase errors in seasons with higher activity.

iii) Errors are normaly distributed, otherwise some features will have more influence on the target variable than to others. If the error distribution is significantly non-normal, confidence intervals may be too wide or too narrow.

What is overfitting? 

When your model perform very well on your training set but can't generalize the test set, because it adjusted a lot to the training set.

How to validate your models? 

One of the most common approaches is splitting data into train, validation and test parts.

 Models are trained on train data, hyperparameters (for example early stopping) are selected based on the validation data, the final measurement is done on test dataset. 

Another approach is cross-validation: split dataset into K folds and each time train models on training folds and measure the performance on the validation folds. 

Also you could combine these approaches: make a test/holdout dataset and do cross-validation on the rest of the data. The final quality is measured on test dataset.

What is K-fold cross-validation? 

K fold cross validation is a method of cross validation where we select a hyperparameter k. The dataset is now divided into k parts. Now, we take the 1st part as validation set and remaining k-1 as training set. Then we take the 2nd part as validation set and remaining k-1 parts as training set. Like this, each part is used as validation set once and the remaining k-1 parts are taken together and used as training set. It should not be used in a time series data.

What is logistic regression? When do we need to use it? 

Logistic regression is a Machine Learning algorithm that is used for binary classification. You should use logistic regression when your Y variable takes only two values, e.g. True and False, "spam" and "not spam", "churn" and "not churn" and so on. The variable is said to be a "binary" or "dichotomous".

Is accuracy always a good metric? 

Accuracy is not a good performance metric when there is imbalance in the dataset. For example, in binary classification with 95% of A class and 5% of B class, a constant prediction of A class would have an accuracy of 95%. In case of imbalance dataset, we need to choose Precision, recall, or F1 Score depending on the problem we are trying to solve.

What are precision, recall, and F1-score? 

Precision and recall are classification evaluation metrics:
P = TP / (TP + FP) and R = TP / (TP + FN).

Where TP is true positives, FP is false positives and FN is false negatives

In both cases the score of 1 is the best: we get no false positives or false negatives and only true positives.

F1 is a combination of both precision and recall in one score (harmonic mean):
F1 = 2 * PR / (P + R).
Max F score is 1 and min is 0, with 1 being the best.

What is the ROC curve? When to use it?

ROC stands for Receiver Operating Characteristics. The diagrammatic representation that shows the contrast between true positive rate vs false positive rate.

 It is used when we need to predict the probability of the binary outcome.

What is AUC (AU ROC)? When to use it?

AUC stands for Area Under the ROC Curve. ROC is a probability curve and AUC represents degree or measure of separability. It's used when we need to value how much model is capable of distinguishing between classes. The value is between 0 and 1, the higher the better.

What is the PR (precision-recall) curve?

A precision-recall curve (or PR Curve) is a plot of the precision (y-axis) and the recall (x-axis) for different probability thresholds. Precision-recall curves (PR curves) are recommended for highly skewed domains where ROC curves may provide an excessively optimistic view of the performance.

What is the area under the PR curve? Is it a useful metric?

The Precision-Recall AUC is just like the ROC AUC, in that it summarizes the curve with a range of threshold values as a single score.

A high area under the curve represents both high recall and high precision, where high precision relates to a low false positive rate, and high recall relates to a low false negative rate.

What’s the difference between L2 and L1 regularization?

Penalty terms: L1 regularization uses the sum of the absolute values of the weights, while L2 regularization uses the sum of the weights squared.

Feature selection: L1 performs feature selection by reducing the coefficients of some predictors to 0, while L2 does not.

Computational efficiency: L2 has an analytical solution, while L1 does not.

Multicollinearity: L2 addresses multicollinearity by constraining the coefficient norm.

What is feature selection? Why do we need it? 

Feature Selection is a method used to select the relevant features for the model to train on. We need feature selection to remove the irrelevant features which leads the model to under-perform.

What are the decision trees? 

This is a type of supervised learning algorithm that is mostly used for classification problems. Surprisingly, it works for both categorical and continuous dependent variables.

In this algorithm, we split the population into two or more homogeneous sets. This is done based on most significant attributes/ independent variables to make as distinct groups as possible.

A decision tree is a flowchart-like tree structure, where each internal node (non-leaf node) denotes a test on an attribute, each branch represents an outcome of the test, and each leaf node (or terminal node) holds a value for the target variable.

Various techniques : like Gini, Information Gain, Chi-square, entropy.

What is random forest? 

Random Forest is a machine learning method for regression and classification which is composed of many decision trees. Random Forest belongs to a larger class of ML algorithms called ensemble methods (in other words, it involves the combination of several models to solve a single prediction problem).

What is unsupervised learning? 

Unsupervised learning aims to detect paterns in data where no labels are given.

